# mock-3

A mock community composed of 21 bacterial strains represented in equal abundances in two replicate samples, and the same strains represented in uneven abundances in two replicate samples. These are the same community members present in mock-4 and mock-5, which consists of the same mock community samples analyzed on separate Illumina sequencing runs. This was generated by Dr. Dirk Gevers at Broad Institute in 2012.

Previously called dataset-2 in [Bokulich et al. 2013](https://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nmeth.2276) and dataset B3 in [Bokulich et al. 2015](https://dx.doi.org/10.7287/peerj.preprints.934v2).

# Known Issues / Notes

Note:
These barcode reads contain golay barcodes, and the mapping barcodes are not reverse-complemented. Run in qiime-1 using the following command:
``split_libraries_fastq.py -i mock-forward-read.fastq -m sample-metadata.tsv -o out --store_demultiplexed_fastq -b mock-index-read.fastq --rev_comp_mapping_barcodes --rev_comp_barcode --phred_offset 33``

The original QUAL scores for the index/barcode reads were not recovered, and thus mock-index-read.fastq.gz contains artificial index/barcode QUAL scores. QUAL scores from all other files are original.

@wasade recommends trimming forward reads to 150nt prior to analysis. QUAL scores degrade rapidly at the 3' end, causing many reads to be filtered out if using default settings when using ``split_libraries_fastq.py`` in ``QIIME``.

Change log:
Nov 21, 2016 — Raw sequence reads were updated, courtesy of @wasade . Originally, the header lines in the sequence and index reads did not match 100%, causing an error in ``QIIME``

